
# SC_HT_220913
Topic: #SingleCell #Transcriptomics 
Date: 2022-09-13

---

## Summary
HT workshop on single cell

## Speakers
#### Pagani
- Tcells, *Treg* and *Tr-1* type of cells (a subset of CDK4+). 
- He says that *Tr-1* might not be a real cell lineage but more like a cell stage as a result of CD4+ exhaustion.
- Capped at 5 prime and not poly-A to catch enhancer activity in scRNAseq in immunology.
- CellOracle developed by samantha morris to study in silico pertubation.
- *Xenium from 10x genomics*, single cell FISH at single cell resolution, check it out

#### Enrico Lugli
- *FACS* guru. 
-  *stem-like memory cells* hidden in the heterogenity of CD8+ cells.
- *CRUSTY GUI* to be releaased to analyze *FACS* data.

#### Blagoje Soskic
- Autoimmune diseases and immune diseases risk varians

#### Renato  Ostuni
- Macrophages
-  3 different classes of *Macrphages* based on Signal-TF identity.
- They put forward the idea that neutophil can reprogramme their transcriptome upon certain signals and conditions and differentiate.

#### Conde
- CellTypist, linear regression + L2 and mini batch training w/ gradient descending.
- Key steps in single cell data analysis:
	- *Feature selection*, highly variable genes selection
	- *Data integration method*, use more and then see what happen (some BBKNN and scVI)
	- *Cell annotation strategy*, prediciton oc fell identity, DGE ...
- *Fabian Theis* **scArches** to map the cells to reference atlases, they proposed this model

#### Simona Lodato
- dissecting cerebral cortex diversity.

## Questions
- Item



