## Useful Definitions

* Why the -log10(pvalue): we use -log10(pvalue) in various occasions. usually doesn't matter what kind of base you take for the log tranformation, but generally base 10 it's easier to interpret. Taking the Log shrinks differencies at the high end and increase differences at the low end. Logs also allow exponential behaviour to be seen in a linear manner. The reason we use -log is that, for example in a volcano plot, we can show "highly significant" (very low pvalue) genes at the top of the graph. So, the lower the pvalue, the "higher" would be the -log10(pvalue), the "higher" would be in the graph. With this we can show graphically which genes have a very low pvalue.
* Why the log2(value): usually, taking the log of a value it's the log2(value) it's useful for a variety of reason:  1) Log transformed values makes the modelling *PROPORTIONAL* to changes rateher than *ADDITIVE*. This is tipically  biologically more relevant. 2) errors are usually proportional to the values, relationship that's absent on the log scale. 3) Matter of taste, a doubling or reduction of 50% is translated as a +1 or -1, easy to remember and visualize (for a log10 id +- 0.3).
* Fold Change: describes how much a quantity changes between an original and a subsequent quantification. It's the ratio between two quantities. As an example, *for two quantities A and B the fold change of B with respect to A is B/A. In other words, a change from 30 to 60 is described as a fold change of 2 or a one-fold increase. 2 fold = 2 times = double*. Easier to interpret than the difference between two states. A draw back is that can missclassify samples with a great difference (B-A) but small ratio (B/A) when analyzing changes at high expression levels, and it's also unstable for very small denominators and the measurement can be affected by noise.
* Whithin sample normalization: Necessary to compare gene expression between different conditions. Caveats to be assed: library size(i.e. seq depth), length of the gene, library composition(i.e. relative size of studied transcriptome), GC content bais, read coverage of a transcript con be non-uniformly distributed alonf the transcript. Most normalization address library size. *[[2.05_Statistics]] CPM(counts per million)* are obtained by dividing each gene's read count by a certain value and multyplying it by 10^6. *RPKM/FPKM(reads/fragments per kilobase per million reads)* and *TPM(transcripts per million)* are popular metric that improve upon *CPM*. *RPKM* is obtained dividing *CPM* by the length of the gene per kilobase. *FPKM* is the same as *RPKM* but it's used for paired-end reads. These first account for sequencing depth and then for gene lenght. *TPM* does the same but in the reverse order. First it'll normalize for gene length (per kilobase) and then gene-length normalized values are divided by the sum of normalized gene-length values and multiplied by 10^6. Thus the sum of normalized vlaues for *TPM*  will always be equal to 10^6 for each library. 
* Relative Log Expression (RLE) plot: They can be used to assess whether data needs more normalization even after DESeq normalization.
* Coverage :  1X coverage = read length * number of uniquely mapped reads / 3e+09.  A minimum coverage of 30X requires the average read depth across the genome to be 30 reads per base
